<<WIP>> Proposed definition for "Boogaloo" (#186)
tatianamac/selfdefined: 11ty/definitions/boogaloo.md

---
title: Boogaloo
slug: boogaloo
flag:
  text: 'Racist Symbol'
  level: 'avoid'
defined: true
excerpt: Appropriated by Alt-Right and White Supremecist groups as a thinly veiled code for a race-based or civil war, boogaloo was originally both a dance and musical genre.
speech: noun
reading:
  - text: 'Who Owns Boogaloo?'
    href: https://www.npr.org/sections/codeswitch/2020/05/31/864402190/who-owns-boogaloo
  - text: 'The Boogaloo: Extremists’ New Slang Term for A Coming Civil War'
    href: https://www.adl.org/blog/the-boogaloo-extremists-new-slang-term-for-a-coming-civil-war
  - text: 'Boogaloo movement'
    href: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Boogaloo_movement#:~:text=The%20Boogaloo%20movement%2C%20members%20of,they%20call%20the%20%22boogaloo%22.
---

> originally a type of music made up of a mix of mambo, cha cha, pachanga, doo-wop and soul, "Boogaloo" has since been appropriated by Alt-Right and White Supremacists groups to refer to a race-based or civil war.

Reviewer: origina
```suggestion
(original meaning) a type of music made up of a mix of mambo, cha cha, pachanga, doo-wop and soul, "Boogaloo" has since been appropriated by Alt-Right and White Supremacists groups to refer to a race-based or civil war.
```

> The new use of “Boogaloo” is derived from memes about the film _Breakin’ 2: Electric Boogaloo_, riffing on the title – notably, as “Civil War 2: Electric Boogaloo”.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(co-opted meaning) [needs a description of what it is? You allude to it but never explicitly define it] of “Boogaloo” is derived from memes about the film _Breakin’ 2: Electric Boogaloo_, riffing on the title – notably, as “Civil War 2: Electric Boogaloo”.
```

Reviewer: Also I would lead with the paragraph below, and make the note about the origins as a separate paragraph below this one.

> Some Alt-Right members self-identify as "Boogaloo Boys" (or "Bois"), or speak of "preparing / showing up for the Boogaloo". Many dress in Hawaiian shirts and/or military wear to distinguish themselves at protests and gatherings.

Reviewer: It might be worth noting that Bois is also an appropriation.... I mean, at LEAST of Avril Lavigne but I'm guessing there is another culture it steals from as well, possibly a connection with an Native Hawaiian/Asian culture. (They love to double up on their racism)
